src/vectorchord/getting-started/installation.md, before:

# Installation

There are four ways to install VectorChord.

## Docker

### VectorChord Image

<a href="https://hub.docker.com/r/tensorchord/vchord-postgres"><img src="https://img.shields.io/docker/pulls/tensorchord/vchord-postgres" /></a>

The easiest way to try VectorChord is to run it from a ready-to use [Docker image](https://hub.docker.com/r/tensorchord/vchord-postgres).

1. Launch a VectorChord container in Docker.

```sh
docker run \
  --name vchord-demo \
  -e POSTGRES_PASSWORD=mysecretpassword \
  -p 5432:5432 \
  -d tensorchord/vchord-postgres:pg17-v0.4.2
```

2. Connect to the database using the `psql` command line tool. The default username is `postgres`.

```sh
psql postgresql://postgres:mysecretpassword@localhost:5432/postgres
```

3. Run the following SQL to ensure the extension is enabled.

```sql
CREATE EXTENSION IF NOT EXISTS vchord CASCADE;
```

::: tip

To achieve full performance, please mount the volume to PostgreSQL data directory by adding the option like `-v $PWD/pgdata:/var/lib/postgresql/data`

You can configure PostgreSQL by the reference of the parent image in https://hub.docker.com/_/postgres/.

:::

### VectorChord Suite Image

<a href="https://hub.docker.com/r/tensorchord/vchord-suite"><img src="https://img.shields.io/docker/pulls/tensorchord/vchord-suite"/></a>

In addition to the base image with the VectorChord extension, we provide an all-in-one image, `tensorchord/vchord-suite:pg17-latest`. This comprehensive image includes all official TensorChord extensions. Developers should select an image tag that is compatible with their extension's version, as indicated in [the support matrix](https://github.com/tensorchord/VectorChord-images?tab=readme-ov-file#support-matrix).

1. Launch container

```sh
docker run \
  --name vchord-suite \
  -e POSTGRES_PASSWORD=postgres \
  -p 5432:5432 \
  -d tensorchord/vchord-suite:pg17-20250408
  # If you want to use ghcr image, you can change the image to `ghcr.io/tensorchord/vchord-suite:pg17-20250408`.
  # if you want to use the latest version, you can use the tag `pg17-latest`.
```

Other sections may align with the above.

## Debian packages

::: tip

Installation from Debian packages requires a dependency on `GLIBC >= 2.35`, so only the following distributions are supported:

- `Debian 12 (Bookworm)` or later
- `Ubuntu 22.04` or later

:::

Debian packages are used for Debian-based Linux distributions, including Debian and Ubuntu. They can be easily installed by `apt`. You can use this installation method on x86_64 Linux and aarch64 Linux.

1. Download Debian packages in [the release page](https://github.com/tensorchord/VectorChord/releases/latest), and install them by `apt`.

```sh
wget https://github.com/tensorchord/VectorChord/releases/download/0.3.0/postgresql-17-vchord_0.3.0-1_$(dpkg --print-architecture).deb
sudo apt install ./postgresql-17-vchord_0.3.0-1_$(dpkg --print-architecture).deb
```

2. Configure your PostgreSQL by modifying the `shared_preload_libraries` to include the extension.

```sh
psql -U postgres -c 'ALTER SYSTEM SET shared_preload_libraries = "vchord.so"'
sudo systemctl restart postgresql.service
```

3. Run the following SQL to ensure the extension is enabled.

```sql
CREATE EXTENSION IF NOT EXISTS vchord CASCADE;
```

## Prebuilt binaries

::: tip

Installation from prebuilt binaries requires a dependency on `GLIBC >= 2.35`, so only the following distributions are supported:

- `Debian 12 (Bookworm)` or later
- `Ubuntu 22.04` or later
- `Red Hat Enterprise 10.0` or later
- `Fedora 36` or later
- `openSUSE 15.6` or later

:::

Prebuilt binaries are used for other Linux distributions. You can consider repackaging the precompiled binaries. You can use this installation method on x86_64 Linux and aarch64 Linux.

1. Download prebuilt binaries in [the release page](https://github.com/tensorchord/VectorChord/releases/latest), and repackage it referring to your distribution's documentation. Then install it by system package manager. We do not recommend doing this, but if you wish, you can also manually copy the files to the system directory.

```sh
cp -r ./pkglibdir/. $(pg_config --pkglibdir)
cp -r ./sharedir/. $(pg_config --sharedir)
```

2. Configure your PostgreSQL by modifying the `shared_preload_libraries` to include the extension.

```sh
psql -U postgres -c 'ALTER SYSTEM SET shared_preload_libraries = "vchord.so"'
sudo systemctl restart postgresql.service
```

3. Run the following SQL to ensure the extension is enabled.

```sql
CREATE EXTENSION IF NOT EXISTS vchord CASCADE;
```

## PGXN

Install VectorChord from [PostgreSQL Extension Network](https://pgxn.org/dist/vchord) with:

```sh
pgxnclient install vchord # or `pgxnclient install vchord --sudo`
```

## Source

::: tip

VectorChord supports UNIX-like operating systems. Please report an issue if you cannot compile.

VectorChord supports little-endian architectures but only provides performance advantages on x86_64 and aarch64.

:::

You may need to install VectorChord from source. Please follow these steps.

1. Clone the repository and checkout the branch.

```sh
git clone https://github.com/tensorchord/VectorChord.git
cd VectorChord
git checkout "0.4.2"
```

2. Install a C compiler and Rust. For GCC, the version must be 14 or higher. For Clang, the version must be 16 or higher. Other C compilers are not supported. For Rust, the version must be the same as that recorded in `rust-toolchain.toml`.

You could download Clang from https://github.com/llvm/llvm-project/releases.

You could setup Rust with Rustup. See https://rustup.rs/.

3. Build it.

```sh
make build
```

4. Install it.

```sh
make install # or `sudo make install`
```

5. Add the extension to `shared_preload_libraries`. Then restart the PostgreSQL cluster.

If the operating system is Linux, run the following SQL:

```sql
ALTER SYSTEM SET shared_preload_libraries = "vchord.so";
```

If the operating system is MacOS and PostgreSQL version is 13, 14 or 15, run the following SQL:

```sql
ALTER SYSTEM SET shared_preload_libraries = "vchord.so";
```

If the operating system is MacOS, and PostgreSQL version is 16 or 17, run the following SQL:

```sql
ALTER SYSTEM SET shared_preload_libraries = "vchord.dylib";
```

If the operating system is Windows, run the following SQL:

```sql
ALTER SYSTEM SET shared_preload_libraries = "vchord.dll";
```

6. Run the following SQL to ensure the extension is enabled.

```sql
CREATE EXTENSION IF NOT EXISTS vchord CASCADE;
```

::: tip

By default, `VectorChord` only finds `clang` in `PATH` as the C compiler.

If you need to use GCC, please set the environment variable CC to `gcc`.

:::

Commit message:

fix version (#124)
Signed-off-by: usamoi <usamoi@outlook.com>

src/vectorchord/getting-started/installation.md, after:

# Installation

There are four ways to install VectorChord.

## Docker

### VectorChord Image

<a href="https://hub.docker.com/r/tensorchord/vchord-postgres"><img src="https://img.shields.io/docker/pulls/tensorchord/vchord-postgres" /></a>

The easiest way to try VectorChord is to run it from a ready-to use [Docker image](https://hub.docker.com/r/tensorchord/vchord-postgres).

1. Launch a VectorChord container in Docker.

```sh
docker run \
  --name vchord-demo \
  -e POSTGRES_PASSWORD=mysecretpassword \
  -p 5432:5432 \
  -d tensorchord/vchord-postgres:pg17-v0.4.3
```

2. Connect to the database using the `psql` command line tool. The default username is `postgres`.

```sh
psql postgresql://postgres:mysecretpassword@localhost:5432/postgres
```

3. Run the following SQL to ensure the extension is enabled.

```sql
CREATE EXTENSION IF NOT EXISTS vchord CASCADE;
```

::: tip

To achieve full performance, please mount the volume to PostgreSQL data directory by adding the option like `-v $PWD/pgdata:/var/lib/postgresql/data`

You can configure PostgreSQL by the reference of the parent image in https://hub.docker.com/_/postgres/.

:::

### VectorChord Suite Image

<a href="https://hub.docker.com/r/tensorchord/vchord-suite"><img src="https://img.shields.io/docker/pulls/tensorchord/vchord-suite"/></a>

In addition to the base image with the VectorChord extension, we provide an all-in-one image, `tensorchord/vchord-suite:pg17-latest`. This comprehensive image includes all official TensorChord extensions. Developers should select an image tag that is compatible with their extension's version, as indicated in [the support matrix](https://github.com/tensorchord/VectorChord-images?tab=readme-ov-file#support-matrix).

1. Launch container

```sh
docker run \
  --name vchord-suite \
  -e POSTGRES_PASSWORD=postgres \
  -p 5432:5432 \
  -d tensorchord/vchord-suite:pg17-20250408
  # If you want to use ghcr image, you can change the image to `ghcr.io/tensorchord/vchord-suite:pg17-20250408`.
  # if you want to use the latest version, you can use the tag `pg17-latest`.
```

Other sections may align with the above.

## Debian packages

::: tip

Installation from Debian packages requires a dependency on `GLIBC >= 2.35`, so only the following distributions are supported:

- `Debian 12 (Bookworm)` or later
- `Ubuntu 22.04` or later

:::

Debian packages are used for Debian-based Linux distributions, including Debian and Ubuntu. They can be easily installed by `apt`. You can use this installation method on x86_64 Linux and aarch64 Linux.

1. Download Debian packages in [the release page](https://github.com/tensorchord/VectorChord/releases/latest), and install them by `apt`.

```sh
wget https://github.com/tensorchord/VectorChord/releases/download/0.4.3/postgresql-17-vchord_0.4.3-1_$(dpkg --print-architecture).deb
sudo apt install ./postgresql-17-vchord_0.4.3-1_$(dpkg --print-architecture).deb
```

2. Configure your PostgreSQL by modifying the `shared_preload_libraries` to include the extension.

```sh
psql -U postgres -c 'ALTER SYSTEM SET shared_preload_libraries = "vchord.so"'
sudo systemctl restart postgresql.service
```

3. Run the following SQL to ensure the extension is enabled.

```sql
CREATE EXTENSION IF NOT EXISTS vchord CASCADE;
```

## Prebuilt binaries

::: tip

Installation from prebuilt binaries requires a dependency on `GLIBC >= 2.35`, so only the following distributions are supported:

- `Debian 12 (Bookworm)` or later
- `Ubuntu 22.04` or later
- `Red Hat Enterprise 10.0` or later
- `Fedora 36` or later
- `openSUSE 15.6` or later

:::

Prebuilt binaries are used for other Linux distributions. You can consider repackaging the precompiled binaries. You can use this installation method on x86_64 Linux and aarch64 Linux.

1. Download prebuilt binaries in [the release page](https://github.com/tensorchord/VectorChord/releases/latest), and repackage it referring to your distribution's documentation. Then install it by system package manager. We do not recommend doing this, but if you wish, you can also manually copy the files to the system directory.

```sh
cp -r ./pkglibdir/. $(pg_config --pkglibdir)
cp -r ./sharedir/. $(pg_config --sharedir)
```

2. Configure your PostgreSQL by modifying the `shared_preload_libraries` to include the extension.

```sh
psql -U postgres -c 'ALTER SYSTEM SET shared_preload_libraries = "vchord.so"'
sudo systemctl restart postgresql.service
```

3. Run the following SQL to ensure the extension is enabled.

```sql
CREATE EXTENSION IF NOT EXISTS vchord CASCADE;
```

## PGXN

Install VectorChord from [PostgreSQL Extension Network](https://pgxn.org/dist/vchord) with:

```sh
pgxnclient install vchord # or `pgxnclient install vchord --sudo`
```

::: tip

There is a broken VectorChord `0.4.1` package on PGXN. Please do not use it. Use version `0.4.2` or later instead.

:::

## Source

::: tip

VectorChord supports UNIX-like operating systems and Windows. Please report an issue if you cannot compile or make it work.

VectorChord supports little-endian architectures but only provides performance advantages on x86_64 and aarch64.

:::

You may need to install VectorChord from source. Please follow these steps.

1. Clone the repository and checkout the branch.

```sh
git clone https://github.com/tensorchord/VectorChord.git
cd VectorChord
git checkout "0.4.3"
```

2. Install a C compiler and Rust. For GCC, the version must be 14 or higher. For Clang, the version must be 16 or higher. Other C compilers are not supported. For Rust, the version must be the same as that recorded in `rust-toolchain.toml`.

You could download Clang from https://github.com/llvm/llvm-project/releases.

You could setup Rust with Rustup. See https://rustup.rs/.

3. Build it.

```sh
make build
```

4. Install it.

```sh
make install # or `sudo make install`
```

5. Add the extension to `shared_preload_libraries`. Then restart the PostgreSQL cluster.

If the operating system is Linux, run the following SQL:

```sql
ALTER SYSTEM SET shared_preload_libraries = "vchord.so";
```

If the operating system is MacOS and PostgreSQL version is 13, 14 or 15, run the following SQL:

```sql
ALTER SYSTEM SET shared_preload_libraries = "vchord.so";
```

If the operating system is MacOS, and PostgreSQL version is 16 or 17, run the following SQL:

```sql
ALTER SYSTEM SET shared_preload_libraries = "vchord.dylib";
```

If the operating system is Windows, run the following SQL:

```sql
ALTER SYSTEM SET shared_preload_libraries = "vchord.dll";
```

6. Run the following SQL to ensure the extension is enabled.

```sql
CREATE EXTENSION IF NOT EXISTS vchord CASCADE;
```

::: tip

By default, `VectorChord` only finds `clang` in `PATH` as the C compiler.

If you need to use GCC, please set the environment variable CC to `gcc`.

:::
