src/vectorchord/usage/quantization-types.md, before:

# Quantization Types <badge type="tip" text="since v1.1.0" />

Quantization can be applied not only to indexes but also directly to vectors. To this end, VectorChord provides data types for quantized vectors.

`rabitq8` is the data type of a quantized vector. For the same dimension, its cost is about $\frac{1}{4}$ that of a full-precision vector (`vector`) and $\frac{1}{2}$ that of a half-precision vector (`halfvec`). This type is named after its quantization algorithm.[^exrabitq]

[^exrabitq]: Jianyang Gao, Yutong Gou, Yuexuan Xu, Yongyi Yang, Cheng Long, Raymond Chi-Wing Wong, "Practical and Asymptotically Optimal Quantization of High-Dimensional Vectors in Euclidean Space for Approximate Nearest Neighbor Search", SIGMOD 2025, available at https://arxiv.org/abs/2409.09913.

```sql
CREATE TABLE items (id bigserial PRIMARY KEY, embedding rabitq8(3));
INSERT INTO items (embedding) VALUES (quantize_to_rabitq8('[0,0,0]'::vector));
INSERT INTO items (embedding) VALUES (quantize_to_rabitq8('[1,1,1]'::vector));
INSERT INTO items (embedding) VALUES (quantize_to_rabitq8('[2,2,2]'::vector));
--- ...
SELECT id FROM items ORDER BY embedding <-> quantize_to_rabitq8('[0.9,0.9,1.1]'::vector) LIMIT 100;
```

Like them, an index can be created on columns of type `rabitq8`, too.

```sql
CREATE INDEX ON items USING vchordrq (embedding rabitq8_l2_ops);
```

By using `rabitq8`, both the table size and index size become $\frac{1}{4}$ of what they would be when the type of the column is `vector`. The cost is that both performance and precision are compromised by quantization noticeably. Therefore, it is applicable in scenarios that retrieve a large number of results.

In addition, there is also the `rabitq4` type. `rabitq8` quantized vectors use $8$ bits per dimension, whereas `rabitq4` quantized vectors use only $4$ bits per dimension. It is designed for constrained situations that favor low storage over high precision.

## Reference

### Operator Classes

Refer to

* [Operator Classes (`vchordrq`)](indexing#operator-classes).
* [Operator Classes (`vchordg`)](graph-index#operator-classes).

### Types

#### `rabitq8` <badge type="tip" text="since v1.1.0" />

- Description: The data type of a quantized vector that uses `uint8` for internal storage. It's based on extended RaBitQ.[^exrabitq]

#### `rabitq4` <badge type="tip" text="since v1.1.0" />

- Description: The data type of a quantized vector that uses `uint4` for internal storage. It's based on extended RaBitQ.[^exrabitq]

### Functions

#### `quantize_to_rabitq8(vector)` <badge type="tip" text="since v1.1.0" />

- Description: Quantize a vector to `rabitq8`. This function may produce different outputs for the same input with different versions of VectorChord or with different machines.
- Result: `rabitq8`, the quantized vector
- Arguments:
    - `vector`, the vector to be quantized
- Example:
    - `SELECT quantize_to_rabitq8('[1,1,1]'::vector)`
- Note: This function does not have a corresponding `CAST`. If you really need one, you can create it by `CREATE CAST (vector AS rabitq8) WITH FUNCTION quantize_to_rabitq8(vector) AS ASSIGNMENT`.

#### `quantize_to_rabitq8(halfvec)` <badge type="tip" text="since v1.1.0" />

- Description: Quantize a vector to `rabitq8`. This function may produce different outputs for the same input with different versions of VectorChord or with different machines.
- Result: `rabitq8`, the quantized vector
- Arguments:
    - `halfvec`, the vector to be quantized
- Example:
    - `SELECT quantize_to_rabitq8('[1,1,1]'::halfvec)`
- Note: This function does not have a corresponding `CAST`. If you really need one, you can create it by `CREATE CAST (halfvec AS rabitq8) WITH FUNCTION quantize_to_rabitq8(halfvec) AS ASSIGNMENT`.

#### `dequantize_to_vector(rabitq8)` <badge type="tip" text="since v1.1.1" />

- Description: Dequantize a quantized vector to `vector`. This function may produce different outputs for the same input with different versions of VectorChord or with different machines. The original vector cannot be precisely reconstructed using this function.
- Result: `vector`, the dequantized vector
- Arguments:
    - `rabitq8`, the quantized vector to be dequantized
- Example:
    - `SELECT dequantize_to_vector(quantize_to_rabitq8('[1,1,1]'::vector))`
- Note: This function does not have a corresponding `CAST`. If you really need one, you can create it by `CREATE CAST (rabitq8 AS vector) WITH FUNCTION dequantize_to_vector(rabitq8) AS ASSIGNMENT`.

#### `dequantize_to_halfvec(rabitq8)` <badge type="tip" text="since v1.1.1" />

- Description: Dequantize a quantized vector to `halfvec`. This function may produce different outputs for the same input with different versions of VectorChord or with different machines. The original vector cannot be precisely reconstructed using this function.
- Result: `halfvec`, the dequantized vector
- Arguments:
    - `rabitq8`, the quantized vector to be dequantized
- Example:
    - `SELECT dequantize_to_halfvec(quantize_to_rabitq8('[1,1,1]'::halfvec))`
- Note: This function does not have a corresponding `CAST`. If you really need one, you can create it by `CREATE CAST (rabitq8 AS halfvec) WITH FUNCTION dequantize_to_halfvec(rabitq8) AS ASSIGNMENT`.

#### `quantize_to_rabitq4(vector)` <badge type="tip" text="since v1.1.0" />

- Description: Quantize a vector to `rabitq4`. This function may produce different outputs for the same input with different versions of VectorChord or with different machines.
- Result: `rabitq4`, the quantized vector
- Arguments:
    - `vector`, the vector to be quantized
- Example:
    - `SELECT quantize_to_rabitq4('[1,1,1]'::vector)`
- Note: This function does not have a corresponding `CAST`. If you really need one, you can create it by `CREATE CAST (vector AS rabitq4) WITH FUNCTION quantize_to_rabitq4(vector) AS ASSIGNMENT`.

#### `quantize_to_rabitq4(halfvec)` <badge type="tip" text="since v1.1.0" />

- Description: Quantize a vector to `rabitq4`. This function may produce different outputs for the same input with different versions of VectorChord or with different machines.
- Result: `rabitq4`, the quantized vector
- Arguments:
    - `halfvec`, the vector to be quantized
- Example:
    - `SELECT quantize_to_rabitq4('[1,1,1]'::halfvec)`
- Note: This function does not have a corresponding `CAST`. If you really need one, you can create it by `CREATE CAST (halfvec AS rabitq4) WITH FUNCTION quantize_to_rabitq4(halfvec) AS ASSIGNMENT`.

#### `dequantize_to_vector(rabitq4)` <badge type="tip" text="since v1.1.1" />

- Description: Dequantize a quantized vector to `vector`. This function may produce different outputs for the same input with different versions of VectorChord or with different machines. The original vector cannot be precisely reconstructed using this function.
- Result: `vector`, the dequantized vector
- Arguments:
    - `rabitq4`, the quantized vector to be dequantized
- Example:
    - `SELECT dequantize_to_vector(quantize_to_rabitq4('[1,1,1]'::vector))`
- Note: This function does not have a corresponding `CAST`. If you really need one, you can create it by `CREATE CAST (rabitq4 AS vector) WITH FUNCTION dequantize_to_vector(rabitq4) AS ASSIGNMENT`.

#### `dequantize_to_halfvec(rabitq4)` <badge type="tip" text="since v1.1.1" />

- Description: Dequantize a quantized vector to `halfvec`. This function may produce different outputs for the same input with different versions of VectorChord or with different machines. The original vector cannot be precisely reconstructed using this function.
- Result: `halfvec`, the dequantized vector
- Arguments:
    - `rabitq4`, the quantized vector to be dequantized
- Example:
    - `SELECT dequantize_to_halfvec(quantize_to_rabitq4('[1,1,1]'::halfvec))`
- Note: This function does not have a corresponding `CAST`. If you really need one, you can create it by `CREATE CAST (rabitq4 AS halfvec) WITH FUNCTION dequantize_to_halfvec(rabitq4) AS ASSIGNMENT`.

### Operators

#### `<->(rabitq8, rabitq8)` <badge type="tip" text="since v1.1.0" />

- Description: Calculates L2 distance of two quantized vectors.
- Result: `real`, L2 distance of two quantized vectors
- Arguments:
    - `rabitq8`
    - `rabitq8`

#### `<#>(rabitq8, rabitq8)` <badge type="tip" text="since v1.1.0" />

- Description: Calculates negative dot product distance of two quantized vectors.
- Result: `real`, negative dot product distance of two quantized vectors
- Arguments:
    - `rabitq8`
    - `rabitq8`

#### `<=>(rabitq8, rabitq8)` <badge type="tip" text="since v1.1.0" />

- Description: Calculates cosine distance of two quantized vectors.
- Result: `real`, cosine distance of two quantized vectors
- Arguments:
    - `rabitq8`
    - `rabitq8`

#### `<->(rabitq4, rabitq4)` <badge type="tip" text="since v1.1.0" />

- Description: Calculates L2 distance of two quantized vectors.
- Result: `real`, L2 distance of two quantized vectors
- Arguments:
    - `rabitq4`
    - `rabitq4`

#### `<#>(rabitq4, rabitq4)` <badge type="tip" text="since v1.1.0" />

- Description: Calculates negative dot product distance of two quantized vectors.
- Result: `real`, negative dot product distance of two quantized vectors
- Arguments:
    - `rabitq4`
    - `rabitq4`

#### `<=>(rabitq4, rabitq4)` <badge type="tip" text="since v1.1.0" />

- Description: Calculates cosine distance of two quantized vectors.
- Result: `real`, cosine distance of two quantized vectors
- Arguments:
    - `rabitq4`
    - `rabitq4`

Commit message:

textual representation
Signed-off-by: usamoi <usamoi@outlook.com>

src/vectorchord/usage/quantization-types.md, after:

# Quantization Types <badge type="tip" text="since v1.1.0" />

Quantization can be applied not only to indexes but also directly to vectors. To this end, VectorChord provides data types for quantized vectors.

`rabitq8` is the data type of a quantized vector. For the same dimension, its cost is about $\frac{1}{4}$ that of a full-precision vector (`vector`) and $\frac{1}{2}$ that of a half-precision vector (`halfvec`). This type is named after its quantization algorithm.[^exrabitq]

[^exrabitq]: Jianyang Gao, Yutong Gou, Yuexuan Xu, Yongyi Yang, Cheng Long, Raymond Chi-Wing Wong, "Practical and Asymptotically Optimal Quantization of High-Dimensional Vectors in Euclidean Space for Approximate Nearest Neighbor Search", SIGMOD 2025, available at https://arxiv.org/abs/2409.09913.

```sql
CREATE TABLE items (id bigserial PRIMARY KEY, embedding rabitq8(3));
INSERT INTO items (embedding) VALUES (quantize_to_rabitq8('[0,0,0]'::vector));
INSERT INTO items (embedding) VALUES (quantize_to_rabitq8('[1,1,1]'::vector));
INSERT INTO items (embedding) VALUES (quantize_to_rabitq8('[2,2,2]'::vector));
--- ...
SELECT id FROM items ORDER BY embedding <-> quantize_to_rabitq8('[0.9,0.9,1.1]'::vector) LIMIT 100;
```

Like them, an index can be created on columns of type `rabitq8`, too.

```sql
CREATE INDEX ON items USING vchordrq (embedding rabitq8_l2_ops);
```

By using `rabitq8`, both the table size and index size become $\frac{1}{4}$ of what they would be when the type of the column is `vector`. The cost is that both performance and precision are compromised by quantization noticeably. Therefore, it is applicable in scenarios that retrieve a large number of results.

In addition, there is also the `rabitq4` type. `rabitq8` quantized vectors use $8$ bits per dimension, whereas `rabitq4` quantized vectors use only $4$ bits per dimension. It is designed for constrained situations that favor low storage over high precision.

## Reference

### Operator Classes

Refer to

* [Operator Classes (`vchordrq`)](indexing#operator-classes).
* [Operator Classes (`vchordg`)](graph-index#operator-classes).

### Types

#### `rabitq8` <badge type="tip" text="since v1.1.0" />

- Description: The data type of a quantized vector that uses `uint8` for internal storage. It's based on extended RaBitQ.[^exrabitq]
- Textual representation: Unlike `vector`/`halfvec`, the textual representation of `rabitq8` is more complex. Suppose the dimension is $d$; it consists of a concatenation of an array of $4$ floating-point numbers enclosed in parentheses and an array of $d$ `uint8` integers enclosed in brackets. For example, `(2.999999, 160.63234, 647, 2.8498733)[255, 205, 187]`. Its interpretation is internal, but you can get the vector it represents by using `dequantize_to_vector(rabitq8)`/`dequantize_to_halfvec(rabitq8)`.

#### `rabitq4` <badge type="tip" text="since v1.1.0" />

- Description: The data type of a quantized vector that uses `uint4` for internal storage. It's based on extended RaBitQ.[^exrabitq]
- Textual representation: Unlike `vector`/`halfvec`, the textual representation of `rabitq4` is more complex. Suppose the dimension is $d$; it consists of a concatenation of an array of $4$ floating-point numbers enclosed in parentheses and an array of $d$ `uint4` integers enclosed in brackets. For example, `(2.999999, 9.420722, 38, 2.8498733)[15, 12, 11]`. Its interpretation is internal, but you can get the vector it represents by using `dequantize_to_vector(rabitq4)`/`dequantize_to_halfvec(rabitq4)`.

### Functions

#### `quantize_to_rabitq8(vector)` <badge type="tip" text="since v1.1.0" />

- Description: Quantize a vector to `rabitq8`. This function may produce different outputs for the same input with different versions of VectorChord or with different machines.
- Result: `rabitq8`, the quantized vector
- Arguments:
    - `vector`, the vector to be quantized
- Example:
    - `SELECT quantize_to_rabitq8('[1,1,1]'::vector)`
- Note: This function does not have a corresponding `CAST`. If you really need one, you can create it by `CREATE CAST (vector AS rabitq8) WITH FUNCTION quantize_to_rabitq8(vector) AS ASSIGNMENT`.

#### `quantize_to_rabitq8(halfvec)` <badge type="tip" text="since v1.1.0" />

- Description: Quantize a vector to `rabitq8`. This function may produce different outputs for the same input with different versions of VectorChord or with different machines.
- Result: `rabitq8`, the quantized vector
- Arguments:
    - `halfvec`, the vector to be quantized
- Example:
    - `SELECT quantize_to_rabitq8('[1,1,1]'::halfvec)`
- Note: This function does not have a corresponding `CAST`. If you really need one, you can create it by `CREATE CAST (halfvec AS rabitq8) WITH FUNCTION quantize_to_rabitq8(halfvec) AS ASSIGNMENT`.

#### `dequantize_to_vector(rabitq8)` <badge type="tip" text="since v1.1.1" />

- Description: Dequantize a quantized vector to `vector`. This function may produce different outputs for the same input with different versions of VectorChord or with different machines. The original vector cannot be precisely reconstructed using this function.
- Result: `vector`, the dequantized vector
- Arguments:
    - `rabitq8`, the quantized vector to be dequantized
- Example:
    - `SELECT dequantize_to_vector(quantize_to_rabitq8('[1,1,1]'::vector))`
- Note: This function does not have a corresponding `CAST`. If you really need one, you can create it by `CREATE CAST (rabitq8 AS vector) WITH FUNCTION dequantize_to_vector(rabitq8) AS ASSIGNMENT`.

#### `dequantize_to_halfvec(rabitq8)` <badge type="tip" text="since v1.1.1" />

- Description: Dequantize a quantized vector to `halfvec`. This function may produce different outputs for the same input with different versions of VectorChord or with different machines. The original vector cannot be precisely reconstructed using this function.
- Result: `halfvec`, the dequantized vector
- Arguments:
    - `rabitq8`, the quantized vector to be dequantized
- Example:
    - `SELECT dequantize_to_halfvec(quantize_to_rabitq8('[1,1,1]'::halfvec))`
- Note: This function does not have a corresponding `CAST`. If you really need one, you can create it by `CREATE CAST (rabitq8 AS halfvec) WITH FUNCTION dequantize_to_halfvec(rabitq8) AS ASSIGNMENT`.

#### `quantize_to_rabitq4(vector)` <badge type="tip" text="since v1.1.0" />

- Description: Quantize a vector to `rabitq4`. This function may produce different outputs for the same input with different versions of VectorChord or with different machines.
- Result: `rabitq4`, the quantized vector
- Arguments:
    - `vector`, the vector to be quantized
- Example:
    - `SELECT quantize_to_rabitq4('[1,1,1]'::vector)`
- Note: This function does not have a corresponding `CAST`. If you really need one, you can create it by `CREATE CAST (vector AS rabitq4) WITH FUNCTION quantize_to_rabitq4(vector) AS ASSIGNMENT`.

#### `quantize_to_rabitq4(halfvec)` <badge type="tip" text="since v1.1.0" />

- Description: Quantize a vector to `rabitq4`. This function may produce different outputs for the same input with different versions of VectorChord or with different machines.
- Result: `rabitq4`, the quantized vector
- Arguments:
    - `halfvec`, the vector to be quantized
- Example:
    - `SELECT quantize_to_rabitq4('[1,1,1]'::halfvec)`
- Note: This function does not have a corresponding `CAST`. If you really need one, you can create it by `CREATE CAST (halfvec AS rabitq4) WITH FUNCTION quantize_to_rabitq4(halfvec) AS ASSIGNMENT`.

#### `dequantize_to_vector(rabitq4)` <badge type="tip" text="since v1.1.1" />

- Description: Dequantize a quantized vector to `vector`. This function may produce different outputs for the same input with different versions of VectorChord or with different machines. The original vector cannot be precisely reconstructed using this function.
- Result: `vector`, the dequantized vector
- Arguments:
    - `rabitq4`, the quantized vector to be dequantized
- Example:
    - `SELECT dequantize_to_vector(quantize_to_rabitq4('[1,1,1]'::vector))`
- Note: This function does not have a corresponding `CAST`. If you really need one, you can create it by `CREATE CAST (rabitq4 AS vector) WITH FUNCTION dequantize_to_vector(rabitq4) AS ASSIGNMENT`.

#### `dequantize_to_halfvec(rabitq4)` <badge type="tip" text="since v1.1.1" />

- Description: Dequantize a quantized vector to `halfvec`. This function may produce different outputs for the same input with different versions of VectorChord or with different machines. The original vector cannot be precisely reconstructed using this function.
- Result: `halfvec`, the dequantized vector
- Arguments:
    - `rabitq4`, the quantized vector to be dequantized
- Example:
    - `SELECT dequantize_to_halfvec(quantize_to_rabitq4('[1,1,1]'::halfvec))`
- Note: This function does not have a corresponding `CAST`. If you really need one, you can create it by `CREATE CAST (rabitq4 AS halfvec) WITH FUNCTION dequantize_to_halfvec(rabitq4) AS ASSIGNMENT`.

### Operators

#### `<->(rabitq8, rabitq8)` <badge type="tip" text="since v1.1.0" />

- Description: Calculates L2 distance of two quantized vectors.
- Result: `real`, L2 distance of two quantized vectors
- Arguments:
    - `rabitq8`
    - `rabitq8`

#### `<#>(rabitq8, rabitq8)` <badge type="tip" text="since v1.1.0" />

- Description: Calculates negative dot product distance of two quantized vectors.
- Result: `real`, negative dot product distance of two quantized vectors
- Arguments:
    - `rabitq8`
    - `rabitq8`

#### `<=>(rabitq8, rabitq8)` <badge type="tip" text="since v1.1.0" />

- Description: Calculates cosine distance of two quantized vectors.
- Result: `real`, cosine distance of two quantized vectors
- Arguments:
    - `rabitq8`
    - `rabitq8`

#### `<->(rabitq4, rabitq4)` <badge type="tip" text="since v1.1.0" />

- Description: Calculates L2 distance of two quantized vectors.
- Result: `real`, L2 distance of two quantized vectors
- Arguments:
    - `rabitq4`
    - `rabitq4`

#### `<#>(rabitq4, rabitq4)` <badge type="tip" text="since v1.1.0" />

- Description: Calculates negative dot product distance of two quantized vectors.
- Result: `real`, negative dot product distance of two quantized vectors
- Arguments:
    - `rabitq4`
    - `rabitq4`

#### `<=>(rabitq4, rabitq4)` <badge type="tip" text="since v1.1.0" />

- Description: Calculates cosine distance of two quantized vectors.
- Result: `real`, cosine distance of two quantized vectors
- Arguments:
    - `rabitq4`
    - `rabitq4`
